content/post/2020-05-25-ngseminars-announcment.md, before:

---
markup: "mmark"

bg_image: images/ngschool/2016-014.jpg
image: images/logos/ngseminars-logo1.png
title: NGSeminars 2020
author: ngschool
date: '2020-05-23'
slug: webinars-general
categories:
  - news
  - NGSeminars 2020
tags: [webinar]
---

<!-- <img class="img-responsive w-100" src="/images/logos/ngseminars-logo1.png" style="display: block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width: 30%;"> -->

As you know, our summer school NGSchool: Statistical Learning in Genomics has been moved to 2021, but.. don't worry! We cannot leave you alone with thirst for knowledge. We are excited to invite you to a series of programming workshops in bioinformatics.

Online workshops will be on Thursdays. Webinars will last about 1.5-2 hours. We are planning a live broadcast, and you will be able to ask questions. Recordings will be available later, but we encourage you to learn live.

<p style="margin: 0" >We'll start on 18th June with workshops for beginners - something for people starting their adventure with bioinformatics and programming: </p>
<ul style="margin: 0">
  <li>Introduction to Linux & command line - 18.06.2020</li>
  <li>Introduction to Python - 25.06.2020</li>
  <li>Introduction to R - 02.07.2020</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin: 0" >Then, it will be time for intermediate webinars:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Snakemake - July, TBA</li>
  <li>Nextflow - 23.07.2020</li>
</ul>

We start already on 18th June! Join us and have fun!

The calendar of our online events is in [NGSeminars tab](/ngseminars/).

Commit message:

Few changes to webinars announcment

content/post/2020-05-25-ngseminars-announcment.md, after:

---
markup: "mmark"

bg_image: images/ngschool/2016-014.jpg
image: images/logos/ngseminars-logo1.png
title: NGSeminars 2020
author: ngschool
date: '2020-05-25'
slug: webinars-general
categories:
  - news
  - NGSeminars 2020
tags: [webinar]
---

As you know, our summer school NGSchool: Statistical Learning in Genomics has been moved to 2021, but.. don't worry! We cannot leave you with the thirst for knowledge. We are excited to invite you to a series of programming workshops focused around technologies used in bioinformatics. They will be mainly intended for people beginning their adventure with bioinformatics and computational biology, however we are sure that every participant will benefit from them.

Online workshops will be on Thursdays. Webinars will last about 1.5-2 hours. We are planning a live broadcast, and you will be able to ask questions. Recordings will be available later, but we encourage you to learn live.

The registration is not required as the streams will be accessible publicly on **[YouTube] (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC5OFqeDkNKzMykBQqgd3Keg)**, however we invite you to our **[Discord server] (https://discord.gg/MhNeqwR)** to discuss the topics and ask the presenter your questions. The recordings will also be available on our YouTube channel afterwards.

<p style="margin: 0" >We'll start on 18th June with workshops for beginners - something for people starting their adventure with bioinformatics and programming: </p>
<ul style="margin: 0">
  <li>Introduction to Linux & command line - 18.06.2020</li>
  <li>Introduction to Python - 25.06.2020</li>
  <li>Introduction to R - 02.07.2020</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin: 0" >Then, it will be time for intermediate webinars:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Snakemake - July, TBA</li>
  <li>Nextflow - 23.07.2020</li>
</ul>

Further details about the webinars and presenters will be posted soon on our social media so stay tuned!

**Don't miss out - we are starting on 18th June! Join us to learn and have fun!**

The calendar of our online events is in [NGSeminars tab](/ngseminars/).
