content/faq/_index.md, before:

---
bg_image: images/feature-contact.jpg
# date: "2020-02-15"
description: 
draft: false
subtitle: 
title: Frequently Asked Questions
---

## Why is this important?

We are living in very fascinating moment in the history, so-called genomics era, 
when obtaining the whole genome sequence of any individual becomes trivial task 
at affordable cost. Personalised medicine, a health-care system in which 
medical decisions and health-care products are tailored for the individuals 
based on their predicted response or risk of disease, is just around the corner. 
In Europe, most of the progress in these areas is blatantly concentreted in 
western countries, and it is crucial to train the future experts who will also 
drive this revolution in central and eastern european countries.

## How many people usually participate?

Our events are attended by 20-70 people, majority of those are PhD students 
and post-docs, but researchers at all career stages are welcome! 
Summer school usually welcomea 40-60 people, 1/3 of whom are speakers. #NGSchool 
community is interdisciplinary, which results in interesting discussions 
and brings future experts from diverse disciplines together. The participants 
of #NGSchool represent various branches of science, including biology, chemistry, 
engineering, medicine, computer science and related disciplines.  

## How to get a place?

The only way to attend our events is through selection process. #NGSchool 
became quite popular, so getting a place isn't easy. In the previous editions 
([#NGSchool2016](../ngschool2016), [#NGSchool2017](../ngschool2017), 
[#NGSchool2018](../ngschool2018), [#NGSChool2019](../ngschool2019))  
we have received over 400 applications from 50 countries in total. 
Therefore, we strongly recommend to dedicate time and effort to prepare 
solid application if you really wish to attend. Definitely read more about 
our selection criteria.  

Registration is typically opened approximately 4 months before summer school. 
We do our best to advertise every event to attract the best candidates. 
If you wish to be stay in touch with our activities, just follow us on 
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/NGSchool.eu/), 
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/NGSchoolEU) or 
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/ngschooleu/).

## Which scientific background is needed to attend the school? 	

We will accept applications from students/researchers from biology, medicine, 
computer science and related disciplines. We will make sure that the course 
community is interdisciplinary, which will result in interesting discussions 
and will bring future experts from diverse disciplines together.  

## Can I apply if I am not a bioinformatician? 	

We welcome people with different backgrounds as long as the person is motivated 
and will benefit from the school. Our registration form tests the applicants’ 
knowledge in biology, statistics and bioinformatics, since our school is not 
intended for beginners - we encourage you to apply and test your skills with 
the registration form.  

## Do I need previous programming experience in order to apply? 	

People having no prior experience with bioinformatics / programming are welcome, 
but strong motivation is desired!

We suggest everyone with no programming experience to take an on-line course 
introducing Linux and basics of programming (plan to do it approximately 2 
weeks before the school, at the latest). Completing this course will be 
crucial in order to secure smooth learning experience at the #NGSchool.  

## Can undergrad students attend NGSchool? 	

Yes, absolutely! Anyone who plans to use the covered topics in the future 
is the perfect candidate.  

## What is included in registration fee?  

Registration fee covers all of the expenses, including course materials, 
accommodation and meals. We will be able to refund travel expenses for 
selected participants in difficult financial situations.  

## How / when the travel expenses will be reimbursed? 	

You should arrange your trip by yourself. We'll refund travel expenses for
selected participants in difficult financial situations, after receiving 
travel expenses form which will be distributed during the school. 
In order to recieve the refund, please make sure to keep all your tickets & 
travel receipts.   

## What are the expected outputs?

While this is educational project, its outputs are not limited to education. 
The participants interacts with excellent researchers, thus they have unique 
opportunity to exchange ideas with experts. Moreover, this project expose the 
participants to other young investigators using similar techniques and most 
likely facing similar problems in their professional life. Finally, this is 
a great networking opportunity for future experts from the fields of 
bioinformatics, genomics and personalised medicine. We believe that this event 
will result in new, fascinating collaborative projects across V4 and beyond.  


## Will you continue the course in the following years?

We plan to organise our main events on annual basis. Every year we will adapt 
the #NGSchool program accordingly to the current expertise needs. Accordingly, 
we will invite experts in relevant relevant fields of interest. In addition, 
we gather feedback and suggestions from our participants & partners. We take 
this feedback seriously, trying to make our subsequent events even better.  

## Who is supporting this initiative?

We are primarily financially supported by grants from International Visegrad 
Fund and several other agencies. None of the things we are doing would be 
possible without dedication of many people and resources provided by numerous 
organisations. You can learn more about them on Partners page.

## Are you interested?

To stay up-to-date, you can follow us on 
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/NGSchool.eu/), 
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/NGSchoolEU) and 
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/ngschooleu/).  

[Talk to us](../contact) if you wish to contribute to our exciting project either as speaker, 
partner or sponsor.  

If you have any other questions regarding our activities, feel free to [ask](../contact)!

Commit message:

Added missing selection page, updated content

content/faq/_index.md, after:

---
bg_image: images/feature-contact.jpg
# date: "2020-02-15"
description: 
draft: false
subtitle: 
title: Frequently Asked Questions
---

## Why is this important?

We are living in very fascinating moment in the history, so-called genomics era, 
when obtaining the whole genome sequence of any individual becomes trivial task 
at affordable cost. Personalised medicine, a health-care system in which 
medical decisions and health-care products are tailored for the individuals 
based on their predicted response or risk of disease, is just around the corner. 
In Europe, most of the progress in these areas is blatantly concentreted in 
western countries, and it is crucial to train the future experts who will also 
drive this revolution in central and eastern european countries.

## How many people usually participate?

Our events are attended by 20-70 people, majority of those are PhD students 
and post-docs, but researchers at all career stages are welcome! 
Summer school usually welcomea 40-60 people, 1/3 of whom are speakers. #NGSchool 
community is interdisciplinary, which results in interesting discussions 
and brings future experts from diverse disciplines together. The participants 
of #NGSchool represent various branches of science, including biology, chemistry, 
engineering, medicine, computer science and related disciplines.  

## How to get a place?

The only way to attend our events is through selection process. #NGSchool 
became quite popular, so getting a place isn't easy. In the previous editions 
([#NGSchool2016](/ngschool2016), [#NGSchool2017](/ngschool2017), 
[#NGSchool2018](/ngschool2018), [#NGSChool2019](/ngschool2019))  
we have received over 400 applications from 50 countries in total. 
Therefore, we strongly recommend to dedicate time and effort to prepare 
solid application if you really wish to attend. Definitely read more about 
our selection criteria.  

Registration is typically opened approximately 4 months before summer school. 
We do our best to advertise every event to attract the best candidates. 
If you wish to be stay in touch with our activities, just follow us on 
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/NGSchool.eu/), 
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/NGSchoolEU) or 
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/ngschooleu/).

## Which scientific background is needed to attend the school? 	

We will accept applications from students/researchers from biology, medicine, 
computer science and related disciplines. We will make sure that the course 
community is interdisciplinary, which will result in interesting discussions 
and will bring future experts from diverse disciplines together.  
You can find out more about the ideal candidate profile and the selection 
procedure [here](/selection).  

## What are the expected outputs?

While this is educational project, its outputs are not limited to education. 
The participants interacts with excellent researchers, thus they have unique 
opportunity to exchange ideas with experts. Moreover, this project expose the 
participants to other young investigators using similar techniques and most 
likely facing similar problems in their professional life. Finally, this is 
a great networking opportunity for future experts from the fields of 
bioinformatics, genomics and personalised medicine. We believe that this event 
will result in new, fascinating collaborative projects across V4 and beyond.  

## Can I apply if I am not a bioinformatician? 	

We welcome people with different backgrounds as long as the person is motivated 
and will benefit from the school. Our registration form tests the applicants’ 
knowledge in biology, statistics and bioinformatics, since our school is not 
intended for beginners - we encourage you to apply and test your skills with 
the registration form. Read more about it [here](/selection).  

## Do I need previous programming experience in order to apply? 	

People having no prior experience with bioinformatics / programming are welcome, 
but strong motivation is desired!

We suggest everyone with no programming experience to take an on-line course 
introducing Linux and basics of programming (plan to do it approximately 2 
weeks before the school, at the latest). Completing this course will be 
crucial in order to secure smooth learning experience at the #NGSchool.  

You can find out more about the ideal candidate profile and the selection 
procedure [here](/selection).  

## Can undergrad students attend NGSchool? 	

Yes, absolutely! Anyone who plans to use the covered topics in the future 
is the perfect candidate. Read more about it [here](/selection).  

## What is included in registration fee?  

Registration fee covers all of the expenses, including course materials, 
accommodation and meals. We will be able to refund travel expenses for 
selected participants in difficult financial situations.  

## How / when the travel expenses will be reimbursed? 	

You should arrange your trip by yourself. We'll refund travel expenses for
selected participants in difficult financial situations, after receiving 
travel expenses form which will be distributed during the school. 
In order to recieve the refund, please make sure to keep all your tickets & 
travel receipts.   

## Will you continue the course in the following years?

We plan to organise our main events on annual basis. Every year we will adapt 
the #NGSchool program accordingly to the current expertise needs. Accordingly, 
we will invite experts in relevant relevant fields of interest. In addition, 
we gather feedback and suggestions from our participants & partners. We take 
this feedback seriously, trying to make our subsequent events even better.  

## Who is supporting this initiative?

We are primarily financially supported by grants from International Visegrad 
Fund and several other agencies. None of the things we are doing would be 
possible without dedication of many people and resources provided by numerous 
organisations. You can learn more about them on Partners page.

## Are you interested?

To stay up-to-date, you can follow us on 
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/NGSchool.eu/), 
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/NGSchoolEU) and 
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/ngschooleu/).  

[Talk to us](/contact) if you wish to contribute to our exciting project either as speaker, 
partner or sponsor.  

If you have any other questions regarding our activities, feel free to [ask](/contact)!
